[MUSIC]
There are many other things
one could say about set cover.
Let me just end with a few remarks.
The result, we have proof, is that
the sample-and-iterate algorithm gives us
as an output a collection
of sets forming a set cover
with cost that is on average,
at most (ln(n) + 1) times OPT.
Can we do better than this?
Can we do something whose cost is
always at most (ln(n)+1) times OPT?
Can we have a faster algorithm?
The answer to these questions is yes and
yes, with one single
answer to both questions.
Linear programming that we use in
the first part of our algorithm takes
polynomial time, but usually it is slower
than purely combinatorial algorithms.
So let us try to replace linear
programming by a combinatorial algorithm.
The way to do it is to go greedy.
How do we do this?
We do a loop that repeats choosing
sets until we have a set cover.
So it is similar to
the sample-and-iterate algorithm.
And what do we repeat?
At every step we choose a set,
the best possible set.
The set we choose covers a certain
number of elements that are not yet
covered, and
it costs a certain value, C sub S.
Let us pick the best possible set,
the set that maximizes the ratio
of the number of new elements covered,
over the cost of the set.
When you do this,
that is a natural greedy algorithm.
And what is known about this algorithm
is that it also outputs a set cover,
of course, and its cost is always
at most (ln(n) + 1) times OPT.
So it's just as good as the
sample-and-iterate algorithm that we have
studied.
The advantages are first,
greedy is combinatorial.
It doesn't require
solving a linear program.
Second, the quality of a result
is guaranteed in the worst
case instead of being on average only.
But the bounds are the same, and
it is not quite a coincidence the two
algorithms share some similarity.
And you can actually argue that if
you take the randomized algorithm and
you do some properly
done de-randomization,
then you may generate
the greedy algorithm.
So that is another technique to
generate good approximation algorithms.
Can we do better than this,
better than ln(n)?
No, the answer is no.
It is impossible if P is different
from NP to get, in polynomial time,
a result, a set cover that is
better than ln(n) times OPT,
that is always better
than ln(n) times OPT.
So this algorithm is optimal.
It is the best we can hope for
if P is different from NP.
It is the best approximation for
set cover.
Who has worked on this problem and
proved all these nice results?
Many people have worked on this.
Let me just single out a few.
In the 1970s, Chvátal, who is Czech,
designed and
analyzed the greedy algorithm.
In the 1970s, Lovász,
who is Hungarian, designed and
analyzed the greedy algorithm.
In the 1970s, David Johnson,
who's from the US, designed and
analyzed the greedy algorithm.
Wait, they all did the same thing?
Well, these were all
independent pieces of work.
I guess the time was just ripe for
the design of the first
approximation algorithms and
the first developments of the field.
What about optimality, the NP harness
of getting a better approximation?
This is due to Uri Feige from Israel.
Finally, the presentation I gave you on
the last part of a sample-and-iterate
algorithm is largely inspired from
lecture notes by Neal Young using
Wald's inequalities.
So, what have we learned in this chapter?
We have learned a famous problem,
set cover.
We have learned fundamental algorithms and
properties of this basic problem.
This was our first example
of an important concept,
randomization in the design of algorithms.
For approximation algorithms we used
a basic technique, randomized rounding.
Very useful also in other settings
including the one we will see
in the next chapter.
In terms of analysis, the one tool that we
saw that is most basic, most important,
really needs to be remembered if
nothing else, linearity of expectation.
This is really important for
every analysis of randomized algorithms.
Finally, in terms of the way in which
we do the analysis, this slow and
steady way, laying equations one after the
other and and looking at each step, what
is the next step in an orderly fashion is
a little bit like hiking up a mountain.
You have to go slowly and carefully,
one step after the other, left, right,
left, right.
And then you will get to the top
without getting tired along the way.
In the next chapter,
now that we have completed set cover,
we will look at another application
of linear programming and
an interesting randomized rounding for
the multiway cut problem.